# v5.0 Upgrade Guide 

## By compile error

Below is a list of compile error that you could encounter when upgrading van Mapsui V4 to V5. Please inform us if you run into compile errors that are not in this list.

### Compile error: 'Layer' does not contain a definition for 'IsMapInfoLayer'

The `IsMapInfoLayer` field was deprecated. The caller is now responsible for which layers should be queried by passing the list of layers as argument to the GetMapInfo call. The GetMapInfo method is available on the EventArgs of all pointer events. Here is the [documentation on MapInfo](https://mapsui.com/v5/mapinfo/). 

The most straightforward way to port from V4 to V5 is to create a new class with an IsMapInfoLayer field and assign an instance to the ILayer.Tag field. This is a way to extend the V5 layer with the IsMapInfoLayer field. You now need to take this into account in your GetMapInfo requests. 

```cs
public class LayerData
{
    public bool IsMapInfoLayer { get; set; }
}
```

```cs
var layer = new Layer(layerName) { Tag = new LayerData { IsMapInfoLayer = true }};
```

```cs
private void MapTapped(object? s, MapEventArgs e)
{
    var mapInfo = e.GetMapInfo(e.Map.Layers.Where(l => l.Tag is LayerData { IsMapInfoLayer: true }));
}
```

### Compile error: 'Map' does not contain a definition for 'Home'

In V5 you can call the Navigator methods to specify the startup view, for instance: `Map.Navigator.ZoomToBox(startupBox)`. The Home method solved a problem where you could not use the Navigator when the Map size was not initialized. In V5 this problem is solved within the Navigator by postponing the call until it is initialized.

### Compile error: The type or namespace name 'RectFeature' could not be found

RectFeature was removed to simplify our code. Use `new GeometryFeature(myRect.ToPolygon())` instead.

### Compile error: 'SymbolStyle' does not contain a definition for 'BitmapId' 

In V4 you had to register a bitmap and then assign the id to the SymbolStyle. In V5 you can directly specifify the path to the image source. See is the [documentation on ImageSource](https://mapsui.com/v5/imagesource/)

### Compile error: The name 'BitmapRegistry' does not exist in the current context

See the item above.

### Compile error: 'MapControl' does not contain a definition for 'ScreenWidth' and no accessible extension method 'ScreenWidth' accepting a first argument of type 'MapControl' could be found

Use `MapControl.Map.Navigator.Viewport.Width` instead.

### Compile error: 'MapControl' does not contain a definition for 'ScreenHeight' and no accessible extension method 'ScreenHeight' accepting a first argument of type 'MapControl' could be found

Use `MapControl.Map.Navigator.Viewport.Height` instead.

### Compile error: 'IRenderer' does not contain a definition for 'StyleRenderers' and no accessible extension method 'StyleRenderers' accepting a first argument of type 'IRenderer' could be found

Use the static `MapRenderer.RegisterStyleRenderer(...)` method for registering and the `mapControl.Renderer.TryGetStyleRenderer` method when drawing.

### Compile error: 'IRenderer' does not contain a definition for 'WidgetRenders' and no accessible extension method 'WidgetRenders' accepting a first argument of type 'IRenderer' could be found

Use the static `MapRenderer.RegisterWidgetRenderer(...)` method for registering and the `mapControl.Renderer.TryGetWidgetRenderer` method when drawing.

## List of changes in the order that they were applied.
- Removed `RectFeature`. Instead of `new RectFeature(myRect)` use `new GeometryFeature(myRect.ToPolygon())`
- Removed the existing events that were specific to the MAUI MapControl. Alternatives: Use the shared `MapControl` events: MapTapped, MapPointerPressed, MapPointerMoved, MapPointerReleased, or the events on the `Map`: Tapped, PointerPressed, PointerMoved, PointerReleased.
- Introduced PinchState to replace separate *center*, *radius* and *angle* fields and used in o.a. the Map.Navigator.Pinch method.
- Moved UnSnapRotationDegrees and UnSnapRotationDegrees properties from MapControl to MapControl.Map.Navigator.
- Rename Microsoft.Maui.Graphics.Color ToNative(this Styles.Color color) to ToMaui.
- Because BaseFeature is now derived from IFeature and the previously not-implemented methods and fields had to be defined as abstract, these now need the `override` keyword in the derived classes.
- The logic around MapInfo was rewritten. In V4 the Info event returned a MapInfo object which contained the features on the tap location for those layers for which IsMapInfoLayer was set to true. In V5 IsMapInfoLayer is removed. The Info event args do not contain a MapInfo object but a GetMapInfo method to retrieve it. That method needs a list of layers to query. There is also a GetRemoteMapInfo for layers that get the feature info from the server, like WMS.
