# v4.0 upgrade guide 

### Nuget organization changes
The Mapsui core package has been split up into:
- Mapsui.
- Mapsui.Tiling, which has a dependency on BruTile. It contains everything related to the raster tiles, like the TileLayer.
- Mapsui.Nts, which has a dependency on NetTopologySuite (NTS). It replaces everything that was in Mapsui.Geometries.
- Mapsui.Rendering.Skia.

### Other changes
- Namespaces have changed following the nuget changes.
- Where you used Mapsui.Geometries you should now use Mapsui.Nts. The geometries themselve have been replaced by NTS.
- Mapsui.Geometries project has been removed, and replaced with NTS geometries.
- Mapsui.Geometries.Point was replaced by Mapsui.MPoint 
- Mapsui.Geometries.BoundingBox was replaced by Mapsui.MRect.
- Mapsui.Projection moved to Mapsui.Projections.
- Mapsui.Rendering.Skia.CalloutType moved to Mapsui.Styles.CalloutType.
- Feature was replaced by: PointFeature or GeometryFeature or RectFeature or RasterFeature.
- The Feature**s** collection was removed and replace by and an `IEnumerable<IFeature>` (could be a List or Array).
- A RasterFeature now needs a RasterStyle or it will not be visible.
- The Viewport class was replaced with an immutable record. Many methods that were previously in Viewport are now in Navigator or Viewport.Extensions.
- MapControl.Navigator moved to MapControl.Map.Navigator.
- MapControl.Viewport moved to MapControl.Map.Navigator.Viewport
- INavigator was removed use Navigator instead.
- The Navigator.NavigateTo overloads were replaced with several methods with more descriptive names, like ZoomToBox.
